# FintechCaseStudy
# Square Inc., 30 billion dollar idea

The name of the company is Square Incorporated. In February of 2009 Square Inc, was founded by Jim Mckevley and Jack Dorsey they were given the opportunity to fulfill their dream of creating technology capable of aggregating merchant services and mobile payments into a single, easy-to-use service. Square receieved seven rounds of private funding before going public in November 2015. Square began trading on the New York Stock exchange for $9 per share with a company valuation of 3 billion. By April 2021, Square traded at only $265 a share, this business grew exponetionally. Square provides merchants with a suite of services and products to help fulfill sales transactions, employ marketing tactics, and manage inventory, staff and finances. 

    There were not many platforms that offered merchant paying services for restaurant owners specifically, this is what made the company stand out from other competitors. The unique problem that Square solved was providing merchants the convenience of easily accpeting credit card payments at the point of sale without being hammered by expensive merchant service fees. Their intended customers are business owners specifically small businessman who struggle with accepting credit card payments. Their main advantages are convenience and less fees, this seperates from other companies. Square can offer competitive pricing on all of its services for merchants of all sizes becuase it has several avenues through which to monetize those services. 
    
        They use Near Field Communication technology that allows smartphones and devices like payment readers to communicate, and it enables secure, contactless payments like Apple Pay or Google pay. These transactions require no physical contact between the payment device and the payment reader. Whether sent via email, text, swiping their card using the Square card reader or tapping their device on the Square reader, there are multiple ways to make your payment; Even if you're cashless or cardless! Many of their consumers may not carry cash like the average person and this serves them well. Square is a mobile payment company that offers a suite of business software, point-of-sale (POS) systems, payment hardware products and small business services. Sqaure provides a widerange of fintech tools including: Ecommerce, Point of Sale. 
        
            Square's major trend and innovations over the last 5-10 years has been the impact its made for merchants to easoly proces credit card payments. It has become one of the leading point-of-sale systems available and- most impressively--has transcended its original market and gone upstrream to become a serious contender against mobile payment systems and traditional merchant services alike. Did i mention this was targeted for small businesses specifically? There arent many platforms that cater strategitically towards Small businessess and this is how Square charted. There are similar major companies like Apple Pay, Google Pay and Pay-pal but they weren offering the problem solving assistance like Square Inc,. Sqaure measures succes based on 2 metrics; Customer lifetime value, having a Square account and being a entreprenuer or soloprenuer will generate a lifetime relationship due to the benefits. 
            
                Their gross margin is constantly increasing, their finding ways to partner with installment services like Afterpay to provide more helpful ways to pay and afford services. This reaches every kind of demographic and does not discriminate. Square is constantly soaring against competitors in this domain. They are offering a quick and easy way to make payments with their Square Card reader, alot of competitors do not have this leverage. I would highly suggest that Square begins to offer credit cards to their merchants, they arent a bank so it will be set up differently. It wouldnt be based on their credit profile but how they manage their Square account, the weight of their business, the income flow, and factors that are not related to FDIC. 
                    Oferring a service like this will constantly have their merchants wondering, "Why should I leave?". As it will be easy to recognize that no other companies besides banks offer credit card services similar to this. The kind of technology that we will use would be EMV, it allows sensitive data to be stored in a chip, tather than in the magnetic stripe found on traditional payment cards. There will be certain requirements that merchants must meet in order to qualify for a credit card. 
                        These credit cards will range from $100 to $100,000 and can or will decrease due to violation. We would offer low interest rates and will grant a 1 day grace period for every missed payment per month. There will only be 2 late fee removals within a 14 month period and 1 returned fee payments within a 6 month period. These technologies are appropriate simply because they are used in tomorrows world, we exude and promote convenience. No one wants to swipe their card to make a pyament, they will either tap their mobile device(s), card(s) or simply insert the EMV chip section of the card to finalize their payment. The way time moves in todays world is at a fast space and its important that we are ahead of the race.  


https://www.investopedia.com/articles/tech/021017/square.asp "In 2009, entrepreneurs Jack Dorsey and Jim McKelvey created Square, Inc. (SQ), fulfilling their dream of creating technology capable of aggregating merchant services and mobile payments into a single, easy-to-use service. Less than a decade later, millions of small businesses use Square to accept credit card payments, track sales and inventory, and obtain financing."

https://producthabits.com/how-square-became-a-30-billion-company-by-reimagining-payments/
"In 2009, entrepreneurs Jack Dorsey and Jim McKelvey created Square, Inc. (SQ), fulfilling their dream of creating technology capable of aggregating merchant services and mobile payments into a single, easy-to-use service. Less than a decade later, millions of small businesses use Square to accept credit card payments, track sales and inventory, and obtain financing."
https://sports.yahoo.com/biggest-advantage-square-apos-ecosystem-180000735.html
"Square (NYSE: SQ) has long pointed to its growing ecosystem of services as a way to differentiate its core payments service from a growing set of competitors. Over the last couple of years, Square has built out several new services, acquired a couple, and expanded existing services to cover more verticals and use cases."
https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/7859-emv-technology-small-businesses.html
"EMV, which is named after its original developers (Europay, MasterCard and Visa), is a global credit card standard that enhances the security of in-person card transactions. EMV technology allows sensitive cardholder data to be stored in a chip, rather than in the magnetic stripe found on traditional payment cards."